Hi, everybody, welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. If
you're joining us for the very first time today, this is an
open space for the whole data science community to connect and
chat about data science leadership, questions you're
facing and getting to learn about what's going on in the
world of data science at different companies across
different industries. And these sessions are recorded, and they
are shared to the Posit YouTube, which is the first time I'm
referring to something as, as Posit, which is exciting too. So
you can always go back and rewatch or find helpful
resources there as well. Together, we're all dedicated to
creating a welcoming environment for everyone. And we love when
everybody can participate. And we can hear from everyone, no
matter your level of experience or area of work. So there's
always three ways that you can ask questions today. And also
provide your perspective, it doesn't just have to be
questions, you can jump in by raising your hand on zoom, you
could put questions into the zoom chat. And feel free to just
put a little star there if you want me to read it out loud
instead. And then we also have our Slido link where you can ask
questions anonymously to if you prefer to ask there. I did want
to also mention the team at lander analytics had recently
just shared with me the are in government conference, which is
happening in think about a month now in December, the first of
December, and they gave me a 20% promo discount for anybody in
this group who's interested in going to that conference too. So
I'll share it here in the chat. I just wanted to mention it if
it's of interest to anybody. But yes, going back to going back to
the normal spiel. We do also have a LinkedIn group for the
hangout. So if it helps you connect with people or you want
to continue a discussion, you can do so there as well. And our
team will share that in the chat in just a second. But for today,
I'm so excited to be joined by my co host and our friend from
the hangout here. Alan Schussman. Alan is data science
and engineering team leader at WL Gore and associates. And Alan,
I know you've been here with us quite a few weeks, but I'd love
to have you introduce yourself and share a little bit about
your role and maybe something you like to do outside of work
too.
Sure. Yeah. So I'm sure we'll get into like lots of details
about the role. So I won't like deep dive into that quite yet.
But yeah, I work for WL Gore and associates. Gore is the company
that folks probably know from Gore-Tex. In Flagstaff, we in
Arizona, Gore, researches and designs and manufactures medical
devices, primarily endovascularly implanted devices
for a variety of cardiovascular diseases. And I work, I have
landed for the last handful of years in this role as a debut
team leader. Lots of trajectory of change of that team in the
role over the last handful of years. And we can, we can dig
into that. I've been in Flagstaff. I live in Flagstaff.
I've been here for longer, longer than I realized each time
I think about how long I've been here. I've been in Flagstaff
about 17 years now. And it's a it's a great town. We're having
our first winter storm of the year right now. Prior to coming
to Gore, I did a PhD in sociology, and then thought
about, okay, what now what do I want to do with my life? And so
so here I am. Yeah, I'll pause there. And I can I can talk a
bunch more about the the team that I'm on about Gore NPD and
how we fit into things or happy to kind of head in any direction
that folks are interested in, in talking about and eager for
for feedback and stuff from from the team here.
Awesome. Thanks, Alan. And I know in your free time, maybe
paddleboarding is one of the things
Yeah, you know, our it's so dry here. Our little reservoir has
been really depressing this this summer. So I haven't I didn't
get out much. Every time I walk the dog in the woods a lot. I
like to take pictures. I a whole bunch of my hobby time is, is our
coding in the service of doing things that are sometimes useful
with the destiny to API. That's a lot of my my hobby time is
video game plus data. And yeah, that's fun.
Cool. Well, I know you have a little bit of a different title
and some of the leaders we've had on before and you manage
both data science and engineering teams. And I was
just curious to learn a little bit about that experience and
kind of what your team looks like to
Yeah, sure. So my team, the work that my team primarily does is
data engineering. We are part of and I guess this is, you know,
sort of primer on the on the team in general. In the past
year and a half, we've switched from being a sales and marketing
oriented analytics team to being a divisionally facing team. And
so in that time, we've taken on a ton of the the broad team of
which we're a part has grown tremendously, and my team has
grown a bunch. I think the way to understand my team is that
my team is like pragmatic data engineering along a very broad
continuum. So there's some there is some of what I think we
would think of as data science in in that work, insofar as
we're asked to do some things around segmentation and do some
some modeling. But a lot of those things are for us, kind of
applications and methodologies that are waiting for the right
business cases to really put them to use. And so we are
really heavily focused on getting data to a broad team of
analysts who need to do all kinds of different things with
it. And we have both brought up and also sort of inherited as
teams have come to us a really broad set of applications to do
that with of platforms and technologies. And so we are
both. So when I say we're, you know, this is pragmatic data
engineering, we are solving problems as fast as we can,
we're gaining credibility as we do that. As we do that, the team
gets to grow. And we get to think about where do we want to
strategically go? How do we want to be strategic about our
platforms and things, while still being really, really
heavily focused on getting data stuff done for our really,
really diverse set of customers and constituents. And so the
folks on my team are, some of them have formal data science
training in terms of accreditations and and degrees.
There's a mix of folks who come from different kinds of software
engineering backgrounds, and see who else is on the team. And
folks who come from from more business facing sort of sort of
backgrounds, who came into analytics by virtue of kind of
being analysts and developing in really technical directions. So
it's a really broad team. And we're all focused on different
kinds of, of applications and solutions of making data
available, sometimes through a bunch of really complex
mechanics, for our set of end users, who again, are, are going
to do all kinds of different things with it. And so we're
sort of at the crux of this operation of, of data problem
solving. And it's really exciting. And as I said, as
we're, as we're growing, we're getting some opportunity that we
haven't had in the past, to try to be more strategic about how
do we want to grow? What kinds of tools do we want to use? How
will we use them? What kinds of processes will we have those
kinds of things. So it's, it's, you know, we're kind of racing
to, to, to do good stuff for the business. And also, for me, I
really want to sort of do well by the folks on my team and give
them, give them paths that let them grow in ways that they're,
that they're interested in growing. And that's where we
were looking to, you know, some sort of aspirational data
science kind of kind of future states, I guess.
Absolutely. And when you say end users, across the company, who,
who is that? Or who are the different teams that you work
with?
So, um, we have kind of a couple of maybe concentric rings. We
have our broad NPD analytics team is a team now of about 50
or so, my team is about seven. And the rest of those 50 people
are analysts and others who are affiliated with, we kind of have
have dotted functional lines to different kinds of functions
within the organization. So they're connected to sales and
marketing, they're connected to supply chain and manufacturing,
they're connected to quality and regulatory. And they're largely
they're largely analysts who are who have responsibilities to
their teams to produce analyses of different kinds, monitoring
data, strategic planning information, those kinds of
things. And so my team helps to, you know, feed capabilities to
them, and then also work as project partners with them on
the various things that that they need to do. And then, so we
are all part of one big NPD analytics team. But our sort of
customer basing orientations are all are really different. And my
team is the one that sort of spans all of those pillars of
different functional and business teams, which means we
get to see and do a lot of different stuff.
Yeah, great. Thank you. I see Libby, you asked a question. You
want to jump in?
Yeah, I was wondering if you had any engineering or IT background
before you came into this, or if you just kind of like grew into
that at Gore, because I know sociology has quantitative
elements to it, right? So I'm sure you already had some of
that stuff. What was your kind of journey into the engineering
side?
Yeah, I guess there's a story there. You're absolutely right.
I mean, the social background was the thing that I pursued
that I presented as a way to say, hey, I could do, I could
be not an academic, and not an academic could look like a bunch
of the following things. I could work with data, I could do
stats, I could do some, you know, programming of different
kinds, I could do research. So my entry into Gore was kind of
pitching myself to the clinical research team. And that's where
I started in Gore as a data, clinical data manager. So I was
doing, you know, data, data collection design for clinical
studies, essentially, and then monitoring of data as it came in
and those kinds of things. And the, you know, so the
throughline there was, hey, I could understand how research
works, albeit in a really different field, and can figure
out how to work with data in various ways. Okay, I could be a
data manager, my my jump from from there at Gore was into an
IT role where so I sort of translated those kinds of things
into saying, hey, I could fill a new commitment here that has to
do with strategic planning of it stuff for the for the clinical
team. That role, and that was a business partner role. And and
that role gradually expanded to doing it strategy things for our
whole division, which gave me lots of exposure to different
businesses, as well as the different kinds of businesses
and functions, as well as the different kinds of technical
needs that that they had. So I got to see what you know, our
scientists need to work with in terms of technical tools and
things like that, as well as exposure to sales and marketing,
and so on. So, I mean, you know that, and then, at some point, I
said, Hey, I sort of been ready to do something new. And an
opportunity came along to join this then very, very small
analytics team that was trying to figure things out. And, and
I, and I jumped on it. But so no, like, that's the really,
really long answer to your question of like, like, no, I'm
not, I'm not trained as a software engineer, or as, I
don't know, probably any of the things I do day to day. But
there's a sort of through line from, from the stuff I've done
along the way that has has helped me kind of figure it out
as I go, I guess enough to enough to be okay at it, and to
be successful at it sometimes. If there's any through line, I
think there's a lot of enthusiasm for, you know,
working with these technical tools that I get rewarded by
finding success in and gradually getting better enough at those
that I can can do more complex things, I guess. And now as a
leader, I think that's a whole new space of learning for me is
how to, you know, what does successful leadership look like?
And so I'm working on figuring that out.
That's one of my favorite things at the hangouts is learning
people's journey to get to the role that they're in now. And
then it's not always like, you have exactly the role that you
are the degree that you would think you would have. I see
Mubanga, you had asked a question a bit earlier, too. Do
you want to jump in?
Thank you, Rachel. So I just wanted to understand from Alan,
what certifications in his team because he did touch on that
when he started the talk.
Did you say education? I think, so the certifications, I think
you mentioned that accreditations. Yes. Um, yeah.
So people are interested in I think there's there's a range
there. So one of the folks on the team has done a data
science master's degree. And I think that that's the most,
that's sort of the, I don't know, kind of top end of formal
training. Lots of other folks have done some course, some
coursework, some amount of kind of independent, independent
training of different kinds of things. And then, you know, more
generally, folks have, we have we have a great we have a great
mix. I have a mechanical engineer on my team. I have, you
know, folks who do physical engineering, and that's really
cool. And then this, you know, range of folks with with with
other kinds of backgrounds and experiences, but but so that the,
you know, the the most anyone on the team has done formally in
terms of data science training, would would be something like
like, you know, a data science master's, right, right now.
Does that help fill in the bundle, which you were were
interested in knowing? Or were you interested specifically in?
Yes, it does. It does. Because that's the kind of mix that we
normally see, even in this part of the world, we have different
backgrounds and all fitting into the team to give a very nice,
heterogeneous mix of skills.
Yeah. And I kind of reflecting on that a little bit. When I
came into this role, we had a definition for this data
engineer role, that was that really emphasized the technical
the technical kind of accreditation. I have really
intentionally cast a broad a broader net than I think we've
started with, based on the idea that I think people can be
successful, coming from a bunch of places. And we really depend
on a deep understanding of our businesses and our functions,
for example. And I believe that lots and lots of people can
learn that the technical pieces, but you know, there's a business
aptitude, there's a there's a sophistication around how people
interact and solve problems, that I think has has been a
really, really important part of building my team. And I think I
can see that as part of our, our broader success. You know, that
accreditation is one thing, and it demonstrates a particular
kind of capability that's important. But for me, at least,
I really don't want it to be the only one.
Alan, I know you mentioned this briefly in the beginning, but
like, one of your the parts of your role that you really enjoy
is like helping develop your team and helping them be
successful. And I'd love to chat a little bit about that in here.
Like what you're learning in this role, or what has has been
most helpful?
Yeah, so I guess as framework, I can say, Gore as a company takes
that kind of development really seriously. And so we have some
formal processes that try to structure our approach to it. So
I have some help, organizationally, in the fact
that there's always a little bit of a, of a reminder that, hey,
we're, we're coming through our cycle of doing development
planning with our teams and making sure that we're that
we're thinking about it and talking about it. So the formal
element has to do with trying to do good planning with people
about what are they interested in? And where do they want to
go? And having realistic conversations about, okay, you
know, are the things you're interested in things that we
need right now? If so, great, let's, let's connect you to
those and make sure that your skills are developing in a way
that feels rewarding. And that is also getting getting things
done for for our business. And so we have a real deliberate
process of having those conversations, and setting goals
that try to, you know, smart goals that try to work along
along that path, so that a couple times a year, we can say,
hey, are you're checking things off on your on your plan, that
could feel good, and let's celebrate, we really try
intentionally to, to do that. So for me, I think that one of the
things that I'm, I think, learning that I have to figure
out how to do well, especially as the team grows, is how to
balance having like a vision for where we want to go technically,
and also letting my team develop that and run with it. You know,
a year and a half ago, we were a team of three, and all three of
us could be really deep in just about everything we did. And so
the one of the big pivots for me is going, okay, now we're
working with five or six different functions, we have a
lot more work than I can technically lead anymore. My
role is different than it than it was a year and a half ago.
And I can still be really invested in that, like technical
solutions, and the writing code that is really rewarding for me.
But the future direction of the team, I've got to let them own.
And so figuring out how to do that, that's one of the things
for my development this year, that's really important for me
is figuring out how to have a vision, get buying for the
vision, and then and then let them run with it and really be
successful with it. Because my success is they're doing good
work that is really rewarding. And that, you know, ultimately,
we have to get our business needs done. But but success for
us as a team, I think, will feel really, really great when when
they feel like their skills are developing, and they're doing
things that are meaningful to them in ways that they want to
work. So I'm working on all of that now.
And those conversations with them about like their own skills
development and their own career growth, are those like separate
calls that the like company has, like scheduled like annual
review type things? Are they part of a normal one on one
process?
A little bit of both the process itself has its own kind of
cadence and milestones. And so we try to, you know, work but but
I think we try to make that dedicated time, you know, I have
I have weekly or bi weekly catch ups with folks on the team. And
we can check in on those things at those points in time. But we
really also want to have dedicated time to say, like,
alright, let's, let's look at your plan. Let's talk about your
plan. And then there are also in other inputs from other places
in Gore, Gore has an idea of sponsors and sponsors are
generally person who's not who's not your leader, who also has a
commitment to that kind of success. So there are multiple
places where as an associate, you can get that feedback. And
one of my roles is to try to help identify those goals and
then, you know, support people through
working towards them.
Thank you. I see there's a few questions in the chat. And one
is not sure if your name is shared there, but it says s. So
I can start to read the question or if you want to jump in and
read it.
Thanks. Yeah, I was wondering if someone with limited data
engineering experience would apply for a data engineering
role in your team, what kind of skills, experiences, etc, would
you tend to look for or convincing?
Great question.
Yeah, it's a great question. I guess I have to give some caveat
that that you know, those skills I do think are important. I just
don't think that they're the only sort of thing that that gets
you in that can get you in the door. So for example, you know,
working as we have people who are who are successful on our on
our broad team, who come from the analyst backgrounds of all
different kinds, and from tools backgrounds of all different
kinds, and they can be successful there. And I think
that that applies to to a team like mine as well. I do think
that there's a, you know, there's a, a, an element of
being competitive for these kinds of roles that really is
rooted in some some core kind of technical foundations. But for
example, like, you know, I'm trying to think of a good, I'm
trying to think of a good example, you can be really
technical, but not a good problem solver. And we really
need people who can be who can be who can learn the technical
things, but can come in with a perspective on like, what does
solving problems well look like? And I guess I'm thinking of, you
know, you can you can be, you can be really technical, but
inflexible, I'll say, in how you solve problems. And that's a
really, really hard way to be successful. Because you can't,
there's a whole lot of what we do in our work that has to do
with, you know, we're satisficing, we're getting to a
good enough solution that folks can do work with, that we know
we want to improve later. And a lot of, I think a lot of
technical work, a lot of technical training is sometimes
a little too black and white for being able to to compromise
about, this is good data, and my customers can work with it. And
I'll come back and I'll help improve it for the for the next
cycle. You've got to be able to compromise, I think you've got
to be able to talk well through problems. And I think you've
got to be able to feel embedded with your customers, so that
you're a partner to them and not a not just a technical service.
I think that's where you can come into roles like on teams
like, like mine. But also, I guess, I'd encourage you as
there are lots of analytical and technical roles that don't
necessarily look like data engineering, but that are still
doing analytical work. And there's a whole bunch of space
there, where I think the landscape is even more broad for
success, without coming necessarily from, you know, what
we would look at as the, you know, typical, like, you know,
like data engineer, software engineer, data scientist
background.
Thanks. Um, maybe just a follow up question, when you're talking
about solving problems, or, like, communicating with
coworkers, certainly. And I guess, to show that I would talk
about, like, previous experiences, or maybe show how I
creatively solve a problem in my projects or something like
that. Thanks.
Yeah, absolutely. And those are the things, you know, being able
to get that I'm thinking of, like interviews that I've been
part of that have been really fun, you see people light up
when they when they say, I solved this problem, and it
involved a bunch of different kinds of cooperation, and I got
to be creative. You know, seeing that is, is really, really fun.
And that's the kind of thing that I think helps you, you
know, in processes that I think have worked well, it helps
people really stand out is to be able to describe the kinds of
things that you're describing.
I see, Javier had a comment that I'm trying to catch up and
read what everybody's commenting on. But there seems like there's
a lot of plus ones to it. So, Javier, do you want to jump in?
Thanks, Rachel. Um, Alan, I just, I really love your
position on how to have about or how to grow like a balanced,
diverse data science org, or engineering org. And I don't
feel like most hiring managers out there kind of scare your
same thoughts. And, yeah, I just, I proposed it would be
awesome if you wrote like a medium post, or, you know, if
you have a personal blog, if you wrote some kind of post on this,
because I think the more and more voices are out there, like
publicly saying, you know, we don't need to hire PhDs for a
growing team exclusively. You know, it would just be a win,
win for everybody. But thank you. I've loved your feedback.
Thanks. No, I really, really appreciate that. That's, that's
great. That's super affirming for me. So I'm grateful for that
input. I do. Yeah, I think I do look around, you know, I've had
conversations with folks doing like data science certificates
of different kinds. And I do, this probably ranges a little
bit, kind of kind of around around with your comment a
little bit heavier. But I think we, I don't always know if we if
we do a service to people the way we set them up for what we
as an industry data science tends to tends to look like. I
know my team is unique in the way that we're positioned within
our organization, right? There's a whole bunch of our
founding conditions that describe how we how we get to
where we are, right. But and so I know there are lots of teams
that do look like that sort of sort of archetypical data
science org. But I don't know if it's, I don't know if it's the
right expectation for people going through data science
training, to have their eyes on, you know, the the like machine
learning engineer kind of kind of career, for example. You
know, there aren't there aren't a ton of them. The applications
are pretty specific. We're a pretty sophisticated business.
And we're trying to figure out what some of those things mean
to us and how to effectively use them. And don't get me wrong,
I'm really excited for my team to be where we develop that
expertise. But without the without the business need, it's
not fair for me to tell people like, come join my team and be a
data scientist the way that the way that sort of the world says
data science looks. It's going to be technical, it's going to
be interesting, it's going to be rewarding, but it's different
from from that other picture. And so I think we have to be
realistic. And I don't think there's any reason we can't make
people really excited about that kind of work. It's really cool
work. It's really complex. The problems to solve are really fun.
The platforms we get to work with are really cool. It just but
it looks a little different. So I think we have to be realistic.
And I think we I think this expansive view of and, and I'm
kind of going on and on. But so as a job code, the folks on my
team are data scientists. That's the way that's what people we
call them in PeopleSoft. And I think that's the the but the
work right now that we talked about and that I hire people for
is data engineering. And so we've what I like that we've set
up is we've got a lot of runway for folks with a broad set of
skills to come into my team, I have to be really realistic
about what I promised the work is going to look like and when
so that we're not bringing in people who have a very
particular vision of data science that that we just can't
offer. There are other places that can. I would love for folks
on my team to be able to do that kind of work when we're ready
for it. And when we've got the skill, but we're on a path.
I love that.
Thanks for that. Thanks for coming. I really, really
appreciate it.
I see there was an anonymous question a bit earlier. That
was, I work at an investment bank and everything in reporting
is mainly run in Excel. What helped you in connecting our and
or Python to your company's database?
Maybe I should talk about our infrastructure a little bit. I
said that that we're, we're pragmatic data engineering. And
so some of that means some of that means for some projects,
it makes sense to connect to some databases and do some
transformations with Python and produce something on the other
end. The biggest, the biggest kind of piece of infrastructure
that we have in place right now is a set of integrations, not
written in Python, that, that, for that, that build in
conjunction with a bunch of other mechanics, build a big
data mark that feed a significant population of our
analysts who use Tableau against it. So, so I guess to get back
to the question, how have we had success doing something like
that? I guess we've had success where it made sense for the use
case to do data pulls using Python. I bring in R whenever I
get to sit down and do something because I like to work with it.
And, but again, it's, it's, you know, the sort of the right tool
for the job. And one of the jobs that we've had over the last
several years is, is bringing together a bunch of data from
some complex data sources, having a pretty deep business
understanding, and helping to feed this, this big data mart.
That's pretty, you know, like, that's not the, it's not the
thing necessarily that you put like on the data science
recruiting poster, but it's, but it's really, really critical.
And the folks who have done that work are hugely talented. And
absolutely critical for our team success, and have, I think,
developed as part of that program, a ton of really great
skills. So I guess, I don't know if this is a good answer to the
original question, I would say if, if Python connecting to
finance data as an alternative to spreadsheets, helps get the
work done that you need to get done, that's the case that you
make to anybody who is who you need to get buy-in or permission
from or, or whatever. And if in that method, you can then render
out the kind of data products that your customers need, then
it's success. And then you've got a then you've got a cycle
where you can say, hey, I worked through this Python oriented
method to provide data to customers, it worked, let's
expand the scope, let's upscale the number of people who rely on
this, and so on. So I hope that's kind of speaking to that
to that question. I don't know if it is. I don't remember who
asked it.
I think it is. It was anonymous. It was anonymous. But I think it
is. I am. I love Libby's comment, too, which goes along
with that. It's like data science is not one thing. And
I'm thinking that might be the title of this conversation on
on YouTube. Daniel, I see you had asked a question in the
chat. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, yeah, sure. Thank you. So it was really just going back to
a comment that you had made about kind of balancing, I think
when when you'd first mentioned it balancing kind of like
division aspects of a leader and the kind of like the technical
expertise that people in these roles generally have. And so
really, I was just hoping that you could elaborate that a
little bit more and kind of like how you handle that balance. The
general background being where I am, generally speaking, the
higher up you go, the less technical you are in terms of
just kind of like title. And I'm kind of at the first inflection
point now where I'm beginning that transition from kind of
like, person who is turned to for a lot of technical things to
being more kind of like the people leader. And that balance
is something I struggle with.
Yeah, no, I hear you. I think I'm feeling a lot of that, of
that same thing. For me, I think the a big part of the reason the
work is rewarding is being technical. And so selfishly, I
don't want to work myself out of a, out of a job that that is at
least somehow, somehow hands on. And I think I'm working on
figuring out how to, like influence with some with some
kind of vision, but also being really open to what are the
tools that the folks on my on my team want to use, what's going
to be rewarding for them and sort of sort of letting them
run. So maybe there's kind of a kind of a path there where, you
know, if I'm maybe part of the technical piece is, for me is
figuring out, like, what's the potential solution space. And I
need to be able to understand that enough that I can be like
an advocate for the for the kinds of tools that people want
to use, and understand them well enough to, you know, do do
administrative things like like make investment forecasts, like
how much is this going to cost? And can we can we afford it?
Should we afford it? Right? Those are still those still
require me being technical enough to understand the payoff
and the the constraints and the cost and benefits and things
like that. The, I mean, I'm really, really lucky right now
in that I can be strategic, and I can go into conversations
about our, like enterprise global analytics direction, and
I hope be influential on behalf of my team. And then in the
afternoon, I can look at code with someone on my team, and we
can sort of ideate together, like, what does a good a good
solution look like, that kind of being able to do both of
those is great. And so, you know, I would hope that I don't
end up in a role where I don't get to have to have that mix. So
I guess, you know, ultimately, I think I'm really sympathetic to
the kind of position you're in right now, Daniel of, of like,
what is good people leadership look like? And is that rewarding
while at the same time being able to be technical and hands
on? And I think I'm lucky in my organization that I'm able to do
some balancing of it. And I hope I can continue to figure it out
and hope to do it well. But yeah, it's hard.
Yeah, understood. Thanks very much. Very much.
Thank you. I see Marlene, you had asked a question as well.
You want to jump in?
Sure. Hi, Alan. We're twinning, by the way. Yay. So, um, truth
bomb, I kind of hate project management. I kind of do like, I
really enjoy rolling up my sleeves and getting dirty with
the data, right. So it doesn't mean that I'm not good at it, or
I can't do it. But I struggle with, hey, is this something I
really should kind of get some formal training with? And or I
mean, I imagine anybody in the data space at some point might
consider having people work under them, you obviously have a
team under you. I'm just playing with the idea of do I actually
go out and get formal training for project management? I think
in training, you know, managing employees is probably something
that's worth looking at to understand like, good dynamics
and hierarchy and managing personalities. But my question
to you was how, what part of your role since you're there,
did you prepare for, or maybe you had some for aptitude for
excuse me, going into it? And then what did you feel like you
kind of needed and or maybe even your company just said, Alan,
you're assuming this role, here's what this training that
you got to do now, in order to assume this role. That's kind of
the my, my thought process.
That that last bit implies a lot of organization up front about
knowing what to tell people they now need to do. A lot of a lot
of leadership at Gore is kind of evolving into a commitment that
that may be expanding. And, and then learning, what are all the
things that you don't? What are the organizational things that
you just you had no, no idea about? You know, I, I've had to
learn, like, how, how do I make an a budget forecast? How do I
make a budget forecast? Fortunately, I have, I have good,
my team leader, the person who provides leadership to me is
really, really supportive of, like helping me figure those
things out. But that's not universal. And a lot of those
things, I think you sort of sort of stumble along. My, my prior
IT roles were a little bit closer to not formally, but in
I had to do a lot of sort of portfolio planning. And also at
various points, I was everything from a, like a project manager
to just a team member or a or a champion of a project. But I
never had any formal like project management training,
either. And so I learned a lot from other parts of our
organization that do that work, and that evolved sort of in
parallel with with my moving through various roles. So, you
know, we could look to a project management organization to
understand, understand some elements of planning, and to
occasionally even like cap into their resources. I think one
thing that as we've grown from a sales marketing oriented
function to a divisionally oriented function, a capability
gap that I'm learning how to fill now is how do I understand
what everybody needs from us, how to make good predictions
about when we can do the work, how long it will take, how many
resources we'll need, etc. And have that be more than a really
wild guess. You know, that that's one of the things that I
think will be really, really key for us. But again, I you know,
I'm not trained, there are certifications in that stuff,
for sure. I think a team like ours could use probably a
dedicated person, but we're not able to, we're not able to
dedicate those, you know, those resources. One of the things
from from a call, two or three weeks ago, the Toronto Health
System folks, I think they described that they, when their
team formed, they had a portfolio manager or someone to
that effect. That to me is such could be such an important kind
of founding condition for success going forward to say
from the jump, we want to have people who are helping us to
organize this portfolio of work. I think my experience across a
bunch of roles, it is really hard to come too late. But that
doesn't mean we shouldn't be thoughtful, thoughtful about it.
That is super helpful. I really appreciate all those comments.
And I think you're right on the coming late to the show, because
people get real set in their ways and management does not
like to kind of have somebody come in and it's like herding
cats, right? They don't want their stuff messed with or their
toys played with. Yeah, so yeah, I appreciate that. So so much.
Thank you. That definitely answers my question. Thanks.
Thank you. Tiffany, there's a lot of great questions coming
into and I think Tiffany, you asked one a little bit earlier.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, um, I Hi, I had a recent discussion with a hiring
manager, I'm looking for a job, put that out there. And it was
for like the senior data analyst position. And they were kind of
concerned that like, me being more of a data scientist that I
would be kind of bored with doing the data analyst role. And
you talked about how your team, I guess their titles would be
data scientists, but they're more data engineers. And I guess
what do you think the differences are between those?
Good question. There's a whole, there's a whole out there that I
think is pretty loaded. I guess I had I had, I had a similar
conversation in in hiring at one point about basically, the end of
which was was was saying, Hey, I don't think it's the question
about about like the Are you over? Are you over qualified? Are
you going to get bored? Like, I think that's for you. That's,
that's your like, that's for you to think about, I think, I think
if we take seriously, people who are interested in our, in our
roles, we got to think about like, are they are they
qualified for, for, for this work? And trust, trust that they
are when they apply for our jobs, that they're interested in
them, I guess. So I guess, but that's a little kind of
orthogonal to the question about the differentiation between the
roles. But I guess I think it's important for, I think it's
important for us to acknowledge that when we're when we're
looking for people that we could, like, take seriously what
they say they want to do. In terms of the difference, I mean,
I, I think there's a lot of fluidity between them. And
that's why I think it's important to say, aspirationally,
my we call the folks on my team data scientists, most of the
work is probably what we call data engineering. I don't think
I'd draw a bright line distinction between them, though.
I think that if the if the distinction between data
engineering and data science is a is a technical one about like
the methodologies that you use are, you know, are you doing
machine learning? Or are you doing, you know, complex data
management processes? I think that makes it really mechanical
in a way that I don't know if it if it serves us. In either
situation, you're profiling information, you're asking
questions of data, you have to be responsive to the things that
you're that your stakeholders need. And I think, I think doing
data engineering, I don't know, maybe this is provocative. But
I think doing data engineering is a kind of data science. And
I think that doing data engineering is also foundational.
I think that performing data science also involves doing a
lot of data engineering. So I don't think I would like draw a
super bright line. But I do think that that people who are
hiring and people who are leading teams, and people who
are doing the work need to have really serious, honest
conversations about, like, what kind of work does this role
need? And does that look like the stuff that I want to do the
stuff that I've trained for the stuff that I've, you know,
envisioned myself doing? And if not, then yeah, I think you need
to be really honest about, okay, maybe it's not the right, the
right fit. But But I think that they are, I think that they're
so tightly linked, that it's really hard to to differentiate
in a clean way. I don't know if that helps Tiffany.
No, I think that this is kind of the discussion that we had,
it's just it's kind of hard to distinguish between what these
different rules are and define what you would be doing. And
yeah, so thank you.
And you're welcome. And I guess, just to be really clear, I
guess, I don't want to, I don't want to suggest that they're
like interchangeable, or that there isn't some uniqueness of
the skill sets. I think it because there's potentially so
much overlap, I think people have to be really clear about
what's involved in this job. And what do I want to do and be
really honest and serious about, about those kinds of things?
Because for sure, you know, you do different, there are lots and
lots of different kinds of work to do in this whole agglomerated
thing of data science and data engineering. Businesses need to
be really honest about what they need, and they need to
understand it seriously. And, you know, the rest of us need to
think about, does that fit with what we want to do? And can we
and can we get the job there?
I love all this conversation about being really honest about
what they're going to do in that role. But also, for somebody
looking for the role, like making sure it's clear what you
really want to be doing to on the topic of job postings and
hiring to Jackie, I see you asked a question earlier, too.
Do you want to jump in?
Which question was that?
I think it was. So it was about computer science as a preferred
degree. Yeah, I was just wondering what your views are on
was it? I can read it too. I think it was handy. I see job
posting state computer science as a preferred degree. What's
the view on self taught versus formal education?
I mean, I'm a sociologist, and I convince people that I could do
this stuff. So I'm I'm biased towards saying I don't think
computer science should be a preferred degree. A couple
people on my team have CS backgrounds and degrees, and
they're great. I don't think it's the only way to be
successful. I mean, I think it's the only way to be successful
is to have a degree. And I think it's the only way to be
I don't think it's the only way to be successful. I mean, I
think if you look around the community, there are, you know,
so many that this community that our studio and posit has
been such a, I think, foundational positive part of
there are all these people who come into this kind of work
without that background, and they're great. And so for me, I
want to be really encouraging of not needing to come through
that, that particular pipeline. It doesn't, it doesn't exclude
you, of course. But I think there are tons and tons of ways
to come at it without, you know, there are all kinds of
people who are who are super technical and do really
fascinating, complex, interesting technical stuff who
aren't who don't come out of computer science, they come
from, you know, history and literature and social science.
So, you know, that's, yeah, that's obviously my baggage,
right? But But yeah, I don't think you need to, I don't
think you shouldn't need a CS degree.
Thanks, Alan. I see there's quite a conversation happening
in the chat right now, which I love when there's a
conversation going on in the chat, too. I can't catch up
quick enough. But I, I think there was another question you
had asked earlier, Libby, about community or knowledge
sharing. Do you want to jump in? Yeah, I don't think I could
even scroll back to find that. But I was asking, asking if
Gore had any type of internal data science community or
knowledge sharing stuff set up. And I think that the other
part of my question was kind of like, the value that you put
on good communication inside of an engineering role, like, are
your roles, business partner roles, where like, that's
really important for relationship building to partner?
Sorry. Yeah. On the on the community one, I think we're
we're working on it, you know, we have, my team is a little
bit unique in structure within our enterprise right now. But
there are individuals and, and other teams sort of forming.
And I, you know, and we have some of them are in are in
whole other businesses. And so we don't necessarily have a
natural connectivity to them. But we're aware of, you know,
you know, we're aware of them out there, we're trying to
build some sort of networking so that we can, you know, share
good practices, or at least, like at least see each other as
peers out there doing similar work, even if it's not the same
work, or even if our, our tools and stuff are really, are
really different. So I guess I'd say like, yes, sometimes
Gore feels like a really big company, and it feels like it's
hard to connect to those sorts of folks. And other times, it's
really natural. And we can, you know, reach out and collaborate
and communicate. So yeah, maybe young, I guess, in that sense,
Libby, like the real formal sense of community within our
NPD Analytics team, I think we have a great sense of community.
It's a really, it's a really good team to be a part of, even
though, you know, my team is a piece of the of the whole. And
in terms of the second part of your question about sort of the
partnership, I think that we're successful because we are such
close partners to our, to our customers. We don't, right now,
I'm sort of figuring out with the folks on my team, should we
have, you know, should a person on my team be dedicated to
doing work with our quality organization, for example, or
does my team kind of kind of float and sort of, you know,
fill needs as they come up on projects. And I think there are
pros and cons of both of those. But thinking about your question
of what does the partnership look like, I think, you know, we
do well when we have good close relationships with our
customers. And that means that as data folks, we understand the
business, we understand the functional needs, so that we
don't have to, you know, so that they so right, so that they're
like, they trust us, they know that we understand their
problems enough to help to help to solve them. So yeah, I think
the partnership is close, whether it's dedicated or not, I
think we're, we're going to figure out. But I think it's
important for us to feel like we're part of the organization
that's like substantively doing the work. So maybe that's where
the value of the partnership is really, really important. You
know, we're, we're the data team, but we're part of an
analytics team that is deeply, deeply embedded in the business
and the functions that we work with. And I think that's good
for us. And good for them, too. I think it's good for everybody.
I agree. Yeah, I think that's fantastic. Like having people
that can really build relationships with the people who
are the end users of whatever you're doing is so important.
Yeah, for sharing. Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely. I see. Marlene, you had mentioned you had a great
visual that helps you understand how data science is not one
thing. So I'd love to see that at some point. But I also see
Megan, you had a great comment as well about that previous
conversation. I was wondering if you wanted to share that here
too.
Yeah, sure. Um, yeah, I just found that I hadn't asked
questions when I was interviewing as a candidate
around what the differences in the job role around, like, what
the core work would be, versus maybe projects that sounded
really flashy, but we're not a bulk of the work. So just,
yeah, just a suggestion to keep in mind as you're interviewing
to understand, as a data analyst or scientist, what kind
of those differences are might be a good question, just to
make sure it's something that you want to be doing, like on a
daily basis or something like that. Definitely.
Yeah, yeah, I think asking, as an as a candidate, what's the
day to day, you know, what do most days look like, is really
important. And then also, as a, as an interviewer, having
people on the on the interview team who can speak directly to
that is really important. You know, so when we're hiring, you
know, we always have sort of analyst kind of customer facing
folks on the team to be able to explain, like, what do our
customers need? And also, at least someone from my team who
can answer that question, what's the day to day like? Because
that's really important.
Mike, I see you asked two great questions. So maybe whichever
one you like best.
So I, I was hooking back into what you were talking about in
project management. I think it's fair to say that there's
probably a lot of people on the call, who effectively are doing
their own project management within their own team. So
outside of the kind of budgeting aspect, which is, I think,
probably a different conversation, but do you have any
quick wins or quick tips on the kind of management side of
project management, rather than that kind of more formal
discipline?
That's a good question.
Quick wins in project management, I guess, or stakeholder
management might be another.
We, so we, we talk a lot, maybe, maybe two things that I can try
and say really quickly, we talk a lot within my team and the
bigger analytical team about feeling comfortable pushing
back on requests and saying, what are you going to do with
this deliverable? What are you going to do different or what's
going to be value added because of it? That is a really helpful
clarifying question, not only in terms of managing scope, but
also in terms of better understanding what success looks
like. Because often the thing that they say they're going to
do, isn't necessarily a direct line from what they asked, from
what they asked for. So being confident enough and having
enough credibility as a big team to say, to ask that, I think is
really, really good for us. And then you can get into the, to
the more detailed kind of project management stuff. And I
think I said, I had two, two thoughts there. And I have no
recollection now what the, what the second one is. But that one
for us, I think is, is a really important, reaching a milestone
where we could push back in on, in terms of scope was, I think,
a really significant one for us. And the way that I think we
crystallize that is to say, okay, what are you going to do?
You know, help us define that. And I think that's really,
really a key one. Yeah, I can imagine that because you go from
what are you, what, what are you, what do you think you're
asking for? Yeah. What are you actually needing? Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. Tell us how you're going to act if we make this thing,
or if we give you a versus B, what do you do differently?
Is it's really key for everybody, I think.
Thank you so much for all these awesome questions. I want to
make sure that there isn't something that I've missed or
like really pressing question you want to make sure you ask
here. So feel free to just like unmute yourself and jump in
too. I think we got everything.
Awesome. Thank you so much, Alan. This is great.
Thank you. This, this is fun. And yeah, slightly self
indulgently, you know, just real quick, having this
community sort of being able to be a part of over the last year
so has been really great, super validating. And, you know,
congrats Posit on being Posit. You know, that's such a big
milestone, and, and really fun. And, yeah, you all are a big
part I think of why so many of us feel like this is a
community we can be a part of. So I'm really, really grateful.
And this was really fun, fun to chat with everybody. Super
happy to talk more if folks want to find me. And I'm really
happy to look around and like feel like a peer to a bunch of
folks. So thank you. Absolutely. Thank you so much,
Alan. I was just saying that today when I was sharing on
LinkedIn, like, it's so fun seeing, like getting to meet
somebody for the very first time that comes into this space
and then seeing people like, come back and get to know each
other too and feeling like we all really know each other and
have met in person, even though I haven't met everybody in
person yet. But yeah, this has been great. Thank you so much.
Really appreciate it. Have a great day.
Thank you all. Take care.
Rachel, I posted the visual I talked about on my LinkedIn. And
then there's a second visual that I'll put up really soon
too that helps. I think it's from Data Camp. It really shows
like the difference between what at least somebody has a
guideline, right? Architect versus engineer versus
scientist versus analyst, database admin. And so I'm
using it to help my company to kind of understand that there
is no one thing to rule them all, right? You need multiple
people to help handle some of this workload or at least
understand it. But Alan, this has been great. Thank you so
much for sharing all your candid insights and experience.
It's been awesome.
My pleasure, Marlene. Thank you.
Thank you.
And Marlene, I'll take that post over and make sure it goes
into the group too. So if we want to continue a conversation
on that too, I feel like there's a lot of thoughts to be
shared there.
Sure. Thanks, Rachel.
Thank you, everybody.